README.md, before:

# Using AWS AppConfig in a custom MicroProfile ConfigSource

This repository shows how to natively extend Quarkus with a custom ConfigSource to use AWS AppConfig values when injecting configproperties with @ConfigProperty.

This means that a developer can reference AppConfig properties like this:

```java
@ConfigProperty(name = "myProp")
String myPropValue;
```

The demonstrated approach has several benefits:

* The existing standard for injecting configuration in Quarkus can be used directly with AppConfig.
* Configuration fetched from AppConfig has a configurable precedence. It can be used to e.g. override selected properties of the packaged application.properties file.
* AppConfig access code is centralized within the application behind a standardized interface which makes the application easier to port.

## How it works

To achieve this we create a class which implements `org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSource` and register this clas in `META-INF/services/org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSource`. In the implementation of the class we periodically pull for new ConfigurationVersions using the AWS SDK for Java v2. If we receive a new configuration, the new configuration is read and the new values to properties are applied. 

Navigate to [com.amazon.config.source.AwsAppConfigSource.java](src/main/java/com/amazon/config/source/AwsAppConfigSource.java) learn what each overridden method accomplishes in context of the actual code.

**Important:** The RESTEasy implementation used by Quarkus scopes the lifecycle of JAX-RS resource classes (those annotaed with `@Path`) to application scoped instead of the default request scoped outlined in the JAX-RS spec. This would effectively prevent us from rolling out new config values and directly use them in a running Quarkus application, as the resource class s only instantiated once. To circumvent this we wrap our ConfigProperty variable in a `javax.inject.Provider` and call `javax.inject.Provider#get()` each time to fetch the current, up-to-date value as stored in the ConfigSource.  

## The sample use case

Create an AWS AppConfig sample environment. Testing works best with the predefined environment in the `cdk` folder. A [README.md](./cdk/README.md) for setting up the environment is included. 

## Testing the example

Firstly, setup the AWS AppConfig test environment from the CDK app. Next ensure you have your local environment configured with a AWS credentials which allow interactions with AWS AppConfig.

Run the application locally:
```bash
./mvnw clean package
java -jar target/appconfig-quarkus-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar 
```

You will see rather verbose log output which enables you to inspect what the sample application is doing.

Test drive the API endpoint:
```bash
curl localhost:8080/loan/annuity -d '{"amountInEur":1000, "durationInYears":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
# => {"annuity":1150.0000000000007}
```

Now update the configuration in AppConfig by updating the CDK app. In file cdk/lib/app-config-stack.ts change line 33 from
```typescript
// Change this line and run 'cdk deploy' to update the config
content: initialConfigContent,
```
to
```typescript
// Change this line and run 'cdk deploy' to update the config
content: updatedConfigContent,
```
and redeploy.

Observe over the next minute how AppConfig rolls out the change to the smaple app — this should not take longer than 2 intervals of 30 seconds in which the sample application checks for new configuration versios.

Test drive the API endpoint again and observe the new config value being used:
```bash
curl localhost:8080/loan/annuity -d '{"amountInEur":1000, "durationInYears":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
# => {"annuity":1009.9999999999991}%    
```

## Contributions

To contribute with improvements and bug fixes, see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This library is licensed under the MIT-0 License. See the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Include hint on build requirement

README.md, after:

# Using AWS AppConfig in a custom MicroProfile ConfigSource

This repository shows how to natively extend Quarkus with a custom ConfigSource to use AWS AppConfig values when injecting config properties with @ConfigProperty.

This means that a developer can reference AppConfig properties like this:

```java
@ConfigProperty(name = "myProp")
String myPropValue;
```

The demonstrated approach has several benefits:

* The existing standard for injecting configuration in Quarkus can be used directly with AppConfig.
* Configuration fetched from AppConfig has a configurable precedence. It can be used to e.g. override selected properties of the packaged application.properties file.
* AppConfig access code is centralized within the application behind a standardized interface which makes the application easier to port.

## How it works

To achieve this we create a class which implements `org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSource` and register this clas in `META-INF/services/org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSource`. In the implementation of the class we periodically pull for new ConfigurationVersions using the AWS SDK for Java v2. If we receive a new configuration, the new configuration is read and the new values to properties are applied. 

Navigate to [com.amazon.config.source.AwsAppConfigSource.java](src/main/java/com/amazon/config/source/AwsAppConfigSource.java) learn what each overridden method accomplishes in context of the actual code.

**Important:** The RESTEasy implementation used by Quarkus scopes the lifecycle of JAX-RS resource classes (those annotated with `@Path`) to application scoped instead of the default request scoped outlined in the JAX-RS spec. This would effectively prevent us from rolling out new config values and directly use them in a running Quarkus application, as the resource class s only instantiated once. To circumvent this we wrap our ConfigProperty variable in a `javax.inject.Provider` and call `javax.inject.Provider#get()` each time to fetch the current, up-to-date value as stored in the ConfigSource.  

## The sample use case

Create an AWS AppConfig sample environment. Testing works best with the predefined environment in the `cdk` folder. A [README.md](./cdk/README.md) for setting up the environment is included. 

## Testing the example

Firstly, setup the AWS AppConfig test environment from the CDK app. **This is required as Quarkus will execute the ConfigSource code during build augmentation.** Next ensure you have your local environment configured with a AWS credentials which allow interactions with AWS AppConfig.

Run the application locally:
```bash
./mvnw clean package
java -jar target/appconfig-quarkus-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar 
```

You will see rather verbose log output which enables you to inspect what the sample application is doing.

Test drive the API endpoint:
```bash
curl localhost:8080/loan/annuity -d '{"amountInEur":1000, "durationInYears":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
# => {"annuity":1150.0000000000007}
```

Now update the configuration in AppConfig by updating the CDK app. In file cdk/lib/app-config-stack.ts change line 33 from
```typescript
// Change this line and run 'cdk deploy' to update the config
content: initialConfigContent,
```
to
```typescript
// Change this line and run 'cdk deploy' to update the config
content: updatedConfigContent,
```
and redeploy.

Observe over the next minute how AppConfig rolls out the change to the smaple app — this should not take longer than 2 intervals of 30 seconds in which the sample application checks for new configuration versios.

Test drive the API endpoint again and observe the new config value being used:
```bash
curl localhost:8080/loan/annuity -d '{"amountInEur":1000, "durationInYears":1}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
# => {"annuity":1009.9999999999991}%    
```

## Contributions

To contribute with improvements and bug fixes, see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This library is licensed under the MIT-0 License. See the LICENSE file.
